# Sprint retrospective week 8

- **Scrum Master:** Piyush Deshmukh
- **Note Taker:** Jorge Romeu

## Tasks

- **All team members:**
    - [x] Create a logo and finalize plugin name
        - Finalize plugin name after discussion with clients, coach and TA
        - Create a logo based on the name decided (mockup completed)
    - [x] Add content to the installation page and plugin info page
        - Plan out the contents on the installation page
        - Plan out the contents on the plugin info page
        - Include informative GIFs to explain plugin usage
        - Include information on shortcuts for easy user reference

- **Jorge:**
    - [x] Refactoring and testing coverage highlighter and test tracing service
    - [x] Inaccurate coverage data when a class is fully uncovered
    - [x] Refine coverage backend logic

- **Cristian:**
    - [x] Add functionality to checklist buttons
    - [x] Add UI for traceability
    - [x] Refine exception handling
    -
- **Pavlos:**
    - [x] Test the server
    - [x] Refine test case generation from checklist

- **Piyush:**
    - [x] Refactor tests to be less repetitive
    - [x] Refine coverage backend logic

- **Mathan:**
    - [x] Finalize plugin settings
    - [x] Inaccurate coverage data when a class is fully uncovered
    - [x] Refine coverage backend logic

## Discussions/ Problems Encountered

- **All team members:**
    - This week was quite productive where the team was able to finish up code modifications alongside the draft report which was submitted.
    - We finalized on the new name of the plugin - `TestKnight` after discussing with clients, our coach and TA. We also have a mockup for the logo which can be found in the corresponding issue.
    - Lastly, we believe we are on track to finish all coding related issues next week as all the features were already completed previously. This week almost all refinements and codes style refinements were made too.
    - We are also pleased to have finished (some minor refinements remaining) with the plugin info and installation page. We added informative GIFs, images and content there which will hopefully attract users to give TestKnight a try and also provide them an overview on how to use its features.

- **Jorge:**
    - This week was relatively straightforward. Most of the time was spent working on the report.
      As we are reaching the end of the project the code-related tasks were bug-fixes/refinements. In particular, I worked on refactoring two classes which had a lot of duplicate code, fixed some bugs in the coverage data logic and refined the README.
      The most difficult coding-related task was fixing some consistency bugs in the `CoverageDataService` the process however, was facilitated by the new user gui which displays the coverage information live.

- **Cristian:**
    - During this week, I mostly spent time working on the report, since we had a deadline for the draft report.
      Moreover, we also started to implement some of the feedback which we received from the supervisor for more technical parts. Afterward, I had to add functionality for the checklist UI buttons.
      Also, I had to work also on the UI part for the traceability part. However, for this issue, I had also needed the backend part to link with, but the Gitlab stopped work and unfortunately, I could not continue working on this functionality anymore, even though the UI elements (Toggle Action with specific icons and listeners) are already implemented.
      Lastly, I was also involved in creating the logo and discussing the new name of the plugin, and also in adding the content for the installation page of the plugin. Lastly, I was assigned for refining the exception handling, but this one was solved by Jorge code for the branch which could not be merge because of the Gitlab server issue. Thus, no implementation for this was needed anymore.

- **Pavlos:**
    - This week I worked mainly on the report and not so much on the code side of things. Writing the report did prove more time-consuming than expected since we had to carefully follow the TU write guidelines. 
      To be able to do this I mainly worked using the feedback that we received in the last couple of weeks from both our technical writing lecturer and our coach. I also had to write some sections from scratch. Mainly the discussions and conclusion as well some subsections on our implementation chapter. 
      Fortunately, by the end of the week, the report had improved considerably. Next week we will still have some changes to make but nothing too major.
    - Apart from the report I also worked on 2 small issues that were easy to code. Namely, I worked on writing tests for the server. 
      One small issue, I had with this was that a significantly large part of the server's codebase is autogenerated at compile time using Lombok. This makes it difficult to get the branch coverage up to standards because it is difficult to inspect what branches are covered.
      In the end, I figured out a way to make JaCoCo ignore the autogenerated methods and then was able to get the branch coverage up to 100%. The second task I worked on was implementing some refinements on the autogenerated test method system. This was straightforward since it was based on standard IntelliJ SDK functionality.

- **Piyush:**
    - I started off this week working on writing missing parts of the report while others worked on some issues. I wrote some sections in the report like summary and preface and also worked alongside Pavlos to complete the report as much as possible before the other members pitched in for the report too.
      For my other issue which involved refactoring all project tests, I was dependent on other issues which also affected tests. Hence, to avoid last week's issue where some changes had to be redone, I mainly worked on this towards the end of the week. 
      Although this was not very hard in terms of implementation, it consumed a lot of time just because of the sheer number of tests present in the plugin suite.

- **Mathan:**
    - This week was mostly spent on writing our report, thus not too many issues were assigned to us. Also since we are in our final weeks, most issues were about refactoring and small refinements.
      The issue I was assigned this week was to finalize the settings panel by adding options to customize the Parameter suggestion tree in the settings panel and to refine and fix some bugs that we noticed in CoverageDataService. 
      Adding buttons to customize the tree was rather straightforward (still a bit time-consuming), but I had a new approach to linking the data with the tree. Doing that took most of the time spent on the issue. 
      Refining CoverageDataService took as much time as we expected. It took a while to properly reproduce the bug (happens only when new coverage was 0), but after that, it was straightforward to fix it. Smaller refinements were later done to improve the efficiency of some parts of the code. Overall, the time spent on this issue was exactly as we expected.

## What can we improve?
We improved from the global planning last week and organized ourselves better this week with fewer colliding issues.
We were also quite satisfied with this sprint although there was a Gitlab issue on Sunday which delayed us from finishing the sprint by a bit.

## State of the Project
All must-have, could-have and should-have requirements had already been completed. 
We have also made progress on documentation, testing and improving code quality alongside with some quality of life improvements keeping the users of the plugin in mind.
A rough plan for next week, which would also be our final sprint, would be to incorporate final suggestions from clients and some users who tried out the plugin. 
The only two major issues to consider are migrating to GitHub and publishing the plugin to the IntelliJ marketplace. Of course, we have to make the appropriate final touches to the report according to the feedback we received on the draft version and also start preparing for the final presentation.

